Date: 10/9/14

Post: So far at DBC, pairing has been the most interesting thing that is involved in the cirriculum. Pairing can be really awesome or pretty terrible, but this is all on you and your pair. Both are really responsible for 50% of what happens during the pairing session, so I definitely need to step back and examine what I could have done better during poor pairing sessions. The most rewarding thing is definitely finally seeing your code pass the rspec tests after struggling with your partner, especially after trying some new code which you're unsure will work. The most frustrating thing about challenges is often trying to adequately articulate my thought process. I've never been a very good teacher, but I'm constantly having to explain things that I'm just learning to others who have a similar level of understanding as well. 

After reviewing my feedback, I felt pretty good for the most part. While there were definitely some areas of improvement, pretty much all of the feedback was generally positive and others have enjoyed working with me and benefitted from me. There were a few from early on which I recognized some of my short comings and have already begun improving on. The biggest thing I need to work on is slowing it down a little bit. I can tend to work quickly and not always formulate my thoughts before saying something and this can negatively impact my pair. While this was something that I was somewhat aware of, it has been really great hearing others perspectives, although we would all like to have flawless feedback. Writing feedback was always interesting because sometimes when you're reflecting you notice things that during the pairing session you might not have identified as problems. More often then not, I've had some really good pairing sessions and writing actionable feedback is often the most difficult element of this for me.