Date: 11/21/2014

Post: I've been spending a lot time working through Ruby and more recently working through JavaScript, both of with are object oriented langauges. While this is knowledge is really valuable, I realized that I don't know much about functional programming, which is considered to be the opposite of object oriented programming. The first thing that I learned about functional programming is that it is generally considered to be more difficult than object oriented programming, but they benefit the coder in that they provide a higher efficiency and integrity. Also they work well with networked computers running functions on various CPUs. Another benefit is that programs can be broken down into smaller, simpler pieces that the user can use for more reliable programming and are generally easier to understand. But, beyond the why, what exactly is functional programming. Ultimately, function programming broken down into two main parts. The first is that data is immutable or unchanging. This means that instead of changing something like a variable when you need to update it, you would instead create a new variable based on the original one and use this new vairable from here on out (until of course you need to change that variable and the cycle repeats). The other main aspect of functional programming is that they are stateless. This really just means that every function operates independently of what happened elsewhere in the program. In practical terms, this means that functions only use data that is passed as an argument, rather than taking data from values that are outside of the function. While this is really just the tip of the iceberg (as you might have imagined), this is essentially what functional programming is. We can clearly see how this differs from object oriented programming as functions do not operate in a vacuum, as they do with functional programming, and we obviously make updates to variables, arrays, hashes, etc. as this is a base functionality and is heavily used in object oriented programming. From this, is easier to understand how they are different and are consider to be opposites.