Phase 0 Cultural Blog

Week 1 - Fireside Chat

10/12/2014

Personally, I love the concept of DBC's culture and approach to learning. My personal philosphy on life is that all things are connected and a lot of the issues that we see in the world are due to unintended consequences of decisions made by people who don't see or percieve the conenction that their decision has on other areas. A good example of that would be my alma mater (who will remain unnamed). My alma mater was traditionally a big school for commuters as it was near a prominent train station where multiple rail lines connect to. Personally, I commuted from home during my time there. As of recently, some of the decision makers decided that it was going to be madatory to live on campus for the first two years at the university in order to increase retention rates and build a stronger more unified student body. As a school that was traditionally high in a commuter population and one that was already expensive, enrollment took a significant decrease. This of course being that the decision makers did not realize how connected the choice to attend was tied to the ability to live at home and avoid paying room and board. Similarly, DBC seeks to address both mind and body. The two most prominent ways that they do that (that I know of) are through the engineering empathy and yoga sessions. This holistic approach to education, I believe, is the best way to go about it and minimize or eliminate unintended consqeuences. 

I believe due to the fact that I believe in the approach, that I will be receptive and more apt to learn DBC on all levels. While everyone comes in willing and ready to learn how to code, not everyone may be ready to learn emotional intelligence. As you may know, being ready and willing to learn something is the first step to actually learning as a mind that is closed off will do no true learning even if that material is heard and tests or knowledge checks are completed. Ultimately, I'm very excited for the onsite  intensive and I can't to learn coding, but also the emotional intelligence to make myself a more effecitve and efficient person, employee, and leader.