Date: 11/21/2014

Post: This week the cultural topic that I explored is Stereotype Threat. To be honest, at first I did not know what this meant. The basic idea behind stereotype threat is that when there is a negative stereotype that someone is aware of, they are more likely to live down to the stereotype than those who are uneffected by said stereotype. While academics might initially spring to mind, studies have shown that there is no one set domain that can be impaired by stereotype threat. For example, white males have exhibited the conseqeuenes of streotype threat in athletic based situations because athleticism is often more associated with black males. While this is merely one example, this can impact anyone based on any stereotype that is given to any group, whether it is race, gender, sexual orientation or another category that one can fall into. 

Clearly, stereotype threat is a negative thing and it will be a long time before it can be completely eliminated (if this is at all possible, but that's more a question for psychologists and sociologists). Regardless, this should not deter us from trying to combat the effects. Ultimately, the change needs to occur in individuals in multiple respects. First, there needs to be the self acknowledgement that negative stereotypes are not blanket statements that are true for all people of a specific group. This then needs to manifest itself by ignoring those stereotypes that are applicable to you. From there, individuals need to be cognizant to not perpetuate negative stereotypes about others, whether this is done in jest or in a serious manner. While this is difficult to do, this change needs to be a global one to have a real impact. The other thing that individuals can do in order to help combat stereotype threat is to teach others about it as well. While the paradigm shift in your own mind is important, it's also important to help others get to that place as well. All in all, it is a daunting challenge to eliminate stereotype threat, but ultimately (prepare for the cliched ending), it starts with you.