Date: 11/30/2014

Post: Conflict is a huge, inevitable part of the human existance. Many of us have conflicts on a daily basis, but how we handle them makes a huge difference. While I like to think that I do a good job of handling conflict most days, we all can admit that we do not always handle things the appropriate way. Fortunately for us, most of the time the reprecussions are usually not hugely consequential, but they definitely can be. Regardless, I recently had a conflict with a good friend of mine about something of a personal matter where essentially, I felt that my friend over stepped his boundaries. Of course, the conflict arose when I confronted him and he did not believe that he had over stepped his boundaries or in fact that there were any boundaries in this given situation. Personally, this was a time when I did not handle things in a correct manner. In this scenario, I exhibited the attacking the other person, as I felt that he was wrong and we got into an argument. This was relatively short lived and it wasn't personal and we tackled the topic itself rather than trying to sling insults. From there, I exhibited avoidance and stopped talking to him for a little while. Although my intent was to address the issue I had in a calm manner, things spiraled out of control when it didn't go as I had planned. ALl in all, my actions lengthened and hurt the over all conflict, although I'm not sure I would do things differently. If I had been in the position which I said things that were hurtful and that I didn't mean, then I would. The one thing that I might do differently is try to see my friends point of view better rather than holding fast to my own. Ultimately, I learned that we cannot hold others to our own standards or even the social norm standards in all sitatuations.