DBC Phase 0 Technical Blog

Week 1 - Developer Basics

10/12/2014

One of the most important things in the developer community, particularly with open source projects, is the concept and use of version control. Now, most of us are familiar with verision control, but still a good concept to go over for those who aren't. Version control basically means saving a new copy of your work when you make changes instead of saving over your initial work, such that if you want or need to go back to part or all of your initial work, you have that option. Pretty straight forward right? For the most part yes, but at least for basic MS Office products keeping track of everything can be a pain. It usually involves including a date, version number, and some indication of who made the changes in the file name. This of course all needs to be done manually and when you're working it can be easy to forget.

Now, I'm sure you're saying at his point,"There has got to be a better way!" And you would be right, at least for the developer community. Developers use a really cool and useful tool called Git. Git facilitates and streamlines the version control process that other professional fields have to do manually. The process by which Git does this is that after you save all your changes, add new files, etc., Git keeps a list of the changes that you've made. From there, you need to institute these changes into your work, but to ensure that only desired changes are kept, Git makes you do this part yourself. From the terminal, you must "stage" all of the files that you want to make in a particular round of updating. Once you've placed all of the changes that you want to mkae in a certain round on the stage, you then can go ahead and commit those changes to the file itself. One of the great things about Git is that when you commit a set of changes to a project, it requires that you make a memo and note what kind of changes you've made. While you can certainly half-ass this, it's really important to write fully fleshed out notes for yourself and other developers who might be working on your project so that if changes need to be removed or reverted to that the process is easier than guessing and checking every round of commited changes. 

While Git is great and personally I don't have any bad things to say about it, it only goes so far as to house your projects on your local drive. This is where GitHub comes into play. GitHub is a website where developers can upload thier projects so that they can be accessed remotely. This is great if you have more than one computer and don't have a personal server. Going beyond that, GitHub is great because it doesn't restrict access to only yourself (unless you want it to). With GitHub, you can give access to certain people or make projects open to the public. This way you can have other crituque your code and give you tips for improvement, allow others to build upon your project, or simply show off what you've built. When you give this level of access to the public, this is what is called open source. Open source projects are commnuity driven and worked on by those who have a passion for a particular project. Some notable open source projects that you may have heard of or even use are Mozilla Firefox, OpenOffice, and VLC Media Player. As you might have realized, these are all high quality, free (not to mention all round awesome) pieces of software that are widely used. They way they got to be this way is from the open source developer community. While open source is not the end all be all of awesome software, it defintely contributes and is an awesome way to get involved.